[Matthew Deeprose] ... to raise student
awareness about alternative formats?
[Sharon Austin] Thank you.
We take a two-pronged approach.
We address the students through a special
organisation called the
Advanced Digital Learning Centre that is
meant just for students and for
them we show them about Ally and
its convenience for them.
For the faculty, we ask them to
shows students about the
alternative formats because many
students use it to, for example,
change a PowerPoint to a PDF so
that they can do their learning
on a mobile basis, and faculty
are unaware of the convenience
of this. So we educate the
faculty about the multimodal
opportunities that alternative
formats offer. Thank you.
[Matthew Deeprose] Thank you very much,
Sharon. I could see definitely
asking the faculty, the
instructors, to give that
information in addition to what
you're doing centrally, I imagine
is very powerful. Esin, if I
could turn to you, what does
your institution do to raise
student awareness about
alternative formats?
[Dr Esin Caglayan] Thank you, Matthew.
As you mentioned we are not an Ally user... yet.
So what we do is
we create informative
posters or leaflets and short
videos and share them with our
our students on our community
page on the LMS - our
Blackboard LMS and we also have
a social media account. So we
prepare, we share the, we post
them on a regular basis.
But just as you said,
I mean
instructors are critical
at this point, I believe.
That's why we share these
materials with the instructors
and ask them to disseminate them
through their course sites on the
LMS and also mention them,
highlight them, during their
courses.
You know, it has a
better influence on the
students, and teachers /
instructors. They have direct
communication. So what the
instructor says is more
important than a general
announcement or a flyer,
I believe.
Brilliant, thank you very much
Esin. So, there's definitely
some common themes there. And
I'd also invite both Sharon and
Esin, if you happen to have any
publicly available links of how
you promote these sorts of
things to students, if you have
a moment to post them in the
chat or if not later perhaps on
the ally community site.
I'm sure they'll be a lot of
interest in that. So going to
turn to our next question, which
we're going to ask Terry first and
then Sharon.
Terry, do you have any tips and
strategies to appealing to all
students? Because of course
these alternative formats, they
can be very beneficial to
students who might have an
impairment or disability, but
they could really be beneficial
to all of us. Over to you, Terry
from Trent University.
[Terry Greene] Yeah, thanks. Hi everybody.
Can you hear me OK?
[Matthew Deeprose] Yes,
[Terry Green] Thank you. Awesome.
So I'm an e-learning
designer and we
work with faculty to develop
fully online, mostly
asynchronous courses. And so our
tips are basically we use UDL
principles, Universal Design for
Learning. I'm not sure how
broadly known those are where
you are, but we embed
those in our practise and the
principles are that you provide
multiple means of engagement,
multiple means of representation
and multiple means of
expression. So basically that means
in the content you deliver, the
activities that the students are
expected to do, and
what they produce for assessment
for marks - it all has variety and
multiple ways to go about it. So
that like for example multiple
means of expression. You can say
you can respond to this with an
essay, but you could also create
a podcast, you could also do a
video, it's up to you.
And that is basically the
answer to the question for me.
It would appeal to all students
universally. So, the the whole
idea of universal design for
learning is really embedded in
our practise here and I have a
link if you haven't seen the
principles of the guidelines
before.
I'll put in in the chat and
share that
as soon as I copy it properly.
[Matthew Deeprose] Awesome.
Thank you so much Terry.
Sharon, if I could turn
to you, do you have any tips and
strategies to appealing to all
students in terms of alternative
formats?
And inclusive practise in general perhaps?
[Sharon Austin] Sure. And I am certainly a big
fan of Ally and its ability to
build in UDL  practises.
But to honestly to get students
to use it, I appeal to their
selfish nature. I say look what
you know the BeeLine reader can
do for you. You can put it in
different colours if you like,
or I will point out the
Immersive Reader, so that they
can listen to it at their
convenience rather than watch it.
So, appealing to personal
customization. It's a very
powerful tool to getting
students to use
alternative formats, even though
the teachers do it to make it
multimodal, right?
Selfishness always wins.